Now that we understand how much high fees
can actually destroy our future net worth,
let's talk about how to avoid paying these fees
when investing in stocks, bonds, commodities, real estate,
investment trusts, et cetera.
Okay, so we will discuss all of the investment categories
I just mentioned soon, but before we do so,
I don't ever recommend investing in mutual funds.
Okay, so what are mutual funds?
Well, many of us know that mutual funds are companies
that invest in stocks or bonds or commodities,
and there are mutual funds for many different types
of investments, like domestic mutual funds,
or international mutual funds,
government-based mutual funds,
or corporate bond investment funds.
Okay, there's many different types of mutual funds,
and these mutual funds spend a massive amount every year
in marketing their funds and trying to convince us
that we need to invest with them.
You know, they're a very powerful lobby, too,
in certain government circles, okay?
And the issue is that, and this will blow you away,
the issue is that 95% of these mutual funds
cannot make you more money than cheaper index funds.
Let me explain what an index fund is, okay?
An index fund is a group of stocks or other investments
that represent a market.
For example,
the S&P 500 is basically 500 stocks in an index
that represents the United States stocks markets, okay?
Like Apple, whose ticker is of course AAPL,
3M, whose ticker is MMM,
which stands for Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing,
Chipotle, ticker CMG,
which stands for Chipotle Mexican Grill,
and a few hundred other stocks, okay?
And so these indexes are also referred as indices,
and there's indexes for all markets, like the CAC Quarante,
or the CAC 40 stock market index in France,
which includes 40 French stocks,
like L'Oréal, and retailer Carrefour.
And then you've got the TSX stock market index in Canada,
you've got the Nikkei stock market index in Japan,
the DAX stock market index in Germany, et cetera, okay?
And there's also commodity and bond indexes, as well.
And we know now that 95% of mutual funds cannot beat
the return you can get from investing in these indexes.
So, why doesn't everybody know this?
Because mutual funds pay a fortune in advertising, okay?
And they also pay a fortune in government lobbying.
And 95% of these funds, again, cannot beat the index.
And they pay a fortune, as well, for advertising
on a lot of the finance media programs we watch.
And so the journalists on these finance media programs
are not gonna kinda articulate what I'm telling you
right now, for obvious reasons.
Okay, so what, Chris? What should you invest in, then,
if you don't recommend buying mutual funds?
Well, there are companies that sell what are called
index funds, and they charge little or next to nothing
to invest in these index funds, okay?
And why do they charge us less than mutual funds do
to invest in their index funds?
Because mutual funds have massive budgets.
They can hire expensive executives that speak
"gooder than me", better than me, I know,
that speak better than me, to manage their funds.
From expensive schools, like Harvard Business School,
also known as HBS, but 2/3 of HBS is BS.
Sorry, Harvard. I'm sorry. Sorry to, okay.
These mutual funds have literally armies
of hundreds of people picking investments
at some of these larger funds.
But again, the issue is that 95% of the mutual funds
cannot beat the indexes, and the problem is that
so many of the mutual fund fees are hidden, right?
And it's unethical.
And some of them can end up charging us several percent more
per year than we thought that they would charge us per year.
And they can't beat the indexes partially because of this.
Okay? And we need to have much smaller fees.
It gets worse, though, okay?
As a bunch of professional money management firms,
like mutual funds, charge even more fees
through what are called "soft dollar fees",
where some of these funds in some countries
pay high commission fees to some trading floors.
And they have those inflated commission fees by computers
or research products for their analysts, okay?
And I think it's unethical.
I think it should be against the law, but it's not.
Okay, also, since taxes are usually lower if you and I
hold investments for more than a year in many countries,
one would think that mutual funds would try to be
longer-term focused in order to ensure
that we pay less in taxes.
That's not true, that's not the case. They don't do that.
Most mutual funds don't care, as they trade way too much,
which basically means that we end up often paying
much higher taxes because these mutual funds don't own
as many positions as they should in the long run, okay?
And many mutual fund managers rent stocks
instead of owning them.
You know, these mutual funds are merely tourists,
and not long-term investors,
no matter what their advertising tells us, okay?
Why? Why do they do this?
Because most of these mutual funds are compensated annually,
okay? And the executives there are compensated annually.
And if these executives that are managing funds,
if they underperform their peers by a lot,
then there's a risk that they may lose their jobs.
So, what they do is they chase performance,
which doesn't work.
They usually do this towards the end of the year, as well.
And it gets a lot worse, as a lot of these mutual funds
charge us one to 2% for early redemption.
How can they get away with this?
Well, one of the reasons is because these ridiculous
additional fees are mentioned in the very, very, very, very,
very, very small, long disclosures that they provide us with
when we buy their funds.
But, for some reason, we never read these disclosures.
And so I'm asking you, please, to read these disclosures.
Read the disclosures for all financial products from now on.
And if you don't understand something,
then please call the company selling you
the investment products, and have them explain it to you.
Because if you don't understand their explanation,
then they're gonna rip you off somehow.
If you don't get it,
then ask them to explain it to you again, kinda like,
somebody explained offside to me in hockey versus icing.
I had to ask them a million times to explain it to me
before I got it, but I finally got it.
Just be a pain in the neck, please, and ask, okay?
And then after you think you understand
the mutual fund fees, and the disclosures,
then explain it back to these people
over the phone or in person.
Again, be a pain in the neck.
And please, please please do so, because I hate to see you
throw good money after bad.
Mutual fund disclosures are long, and they even tell us
that past performance is not indicative
of future performance, okay?
So, disclosures are not this long on ladders,
or on weapons, right?
We go to the grocery store,
and we look at the ingredients of products, right?
We look at the ingredients before we buy something, right?
And we gotta do the same thing whenever we buy
financial products from now on, okay?
Alright, great.
So, let's now talk about index funds
in a little bit more detail.
So, these index funds do not charge
a few percent per year in fees.
There's no need for them to do this, because
they don't have to pay executives a lot of money
to pick stocks, or to pick investments,
as the money is simply invested in indexes, okay?
And, for example,
For the S&P 500,
these index funds will just buy 500 or so of the stocks
in the S&P 500 for their S&P 500 index fund.
And it gets better.
The best index funds charge only 0.09% in fees,
versus some mutual funds,
which can literally charge you 5% or more, okay?
And that's more than 50 times higher than the .09% fee
that you'll get from index funds, okay?
And we know from the previous exercise that a 3% fee
can cause material damage to our net worth in the long run.
But a 5% fee is, of course, much, much worse,
and paying insane mutual fund fees can literally
postpone retirement for you, by a decade if not more.
Yes, this is true.
So, please play around with the numbers
in the previous exercise, which is Exercise 17,
and you will see exactly what I mean.
And mutual fund marketing is so darn misleading.
And what makes it worse is that many of these funds,
if an analyst or portfolio manager is losing a lot of money,
these analysts or these executives
will swing for the fences in order to make up
for their bad performance, right?
Because they know they'll get fired if they don't do this,
which creates unnecessary volatility in the stocks.
It can hurt you, okay? Cost you a lot of money.
And many of these people at mutual funds get very emotional,
I've seen it.
They get very emotional, despite all of their degrees,
and they sell at the worst time,
and they buy at the worst time.
And Warren Buffett said it best,
when he said that the New York Stock Exchange
is the only store in the world where investors sell stuff
when it goes on sale, think about that.
So, we have to consider buying only index funds from now on,
and in the next lecture, I'll give an example of a
great index fund company called Vanguard.
And in the lecture after the next one,
I'll discuss several other index fund companies,
similar to Vanguard, that are also great,
given their very, very low fee structure.
And so, I humbly believe my job is to kinda give you
a menu of investment options, so that you can decide
what to invest in with the lowest fees.